The Union computer device holds some data, although you note that it appears much of it has been erased or corrupted. With your many levels of attention you passively enter queries into the device, taking note of any useful data.

>Black Box Protocol
Ship destruction imminent, data storage unit detached and placed within officer life pod. All classified data destroyed. Flight recording downloaded and stored.

>USV Clarke
Union Service Vessel: The Clarke is a Stiletto class corvette intended for long range reconnaissance.

>Texas
Five entries found: Texas Battle Group, a fleet organized around the USV Texas. USV Texas, Olympus class Carrier. Texas (state), one of the 73 semi-independent states of the United States of the Americas, was destroyed in the Tranquility Impact along with all identifiable landmarks making it the southern half of the Tranquility Crater. New Texas (city), Martian settlement located near large iron deposits, was one of the first and largest of the Confederation’s original colonies, was destroyed by a kinetic impactor during the Battle of Sol. Texas (city), Martian city that was re-founded on the ruins of New Texas by those displaced by the Tranquility Impact.

>Tranquility Impact
Following the destruction of the Earth’s moon in the Battle of Sol, the section of lunar debris known as the Sea of Tranquility entered an unstable orbit and collided with Earth four months later, destroying much of the North American continent and resulting in the Earth Quarantine zone. Those evacuated prior to the impact became the new settlers of the Martian cities Olympia and Texas, along with many smaller Martian settlements.

>Proxima Convention
Following the Battle of Sol the Proxima Convention was held on Sentinel Station in the Proxima system, and marks the official halt of hostilities between the newly formed Commonwealth and the Union, and the complete surrender of the Earth Confederation. Since then additional conventions have been held on Via Marris Station in orbit of Gehenna of the Toliman system, which has since been marked as neutral territory.

>Colony Drop
A highly controversial military doctrine similar in nature to “scorched earth” involving the redirection of a stellar body of sufficient size to impact a target planet and cause wide spread and long term damage to the planet’s habitability and infrastructure. The term is derived from the term coined by Admiral Sterin of the Confederacy when he ordered the action on several occasions, most notably the space colonies New London and Valley Forge, which were accelerated towards the colonies of Coral and Dharius by Confederate forces during their retreat from the Virgo system.

>Ceph
An aquatic race with a loosely structured government that is capable of reorganizing under any situation. Their government is under military control, with authority delegated down a continuously shifting chain of command that makes intelligence difficult to acquire, and quick to become outdated. They communicate through rapidly shifting color patterns on their skin, and are believed to possess advanced stealth technology.

>Valen
A semi-aquatic race of cold-blooded creatures native to a planet of shallow seas and rivers. They are governed by a loose set of tribal houses and are a highly communal people that hold culture and art in high esteem. Their bodies function poorly outside of water, and so often hire outside races and organizations to perform many military operations on their behalf, while considering the concept of strategy and warfare to be a delicate mix of art and science. Nearly every major Valen cultural icon held in Union archives are military leaders. They communicate through a series of rhythmic tones from a large set of hollow bones along their back by blowing air from a bladder along their neck into the elaborate set of interconnected organic tubes within their shells.

>Taidaren
A minor race from Damasco of the Hydra system just entering the industrial era when first contact was made, they have since proven to be a cunning race of nimble and quick thinking individuals. A mother will always lay either a single female, or three identical males, although it is still unknown why this evolutionary quirk was developed. Their small, nimble graspers and multi-purpose limbs adapted to an arboreal lifestyle make them excellent at tasks requiring fine tool manipulation or entry into small spaces, making them common and effective mechanics, among other things. The Taidaren governments during first contact were in the process of waging several skirmish-filled wars between a number of endlessly collapsing and re-forming government entities who quickly ceded power to Union officials seeking a quick end to the fighting. They communicate through a small whistle-like beak, which they also use for echolocation. They have a single, poorly developed eye, meaning that they must use echolocation to determine distance. Their unique language and history as a scavenger species has resulted in the derogatory term “hyena” to become quite common on worlds with large Taidaren populations.

>Clarke ship manifest
20 m3 protein paste
126 warheads – 8 megatons
52 warheads – 20 megatons
10 warheads – 50 megatons
500 2 kilo kinetic rounds
15 sublight probes
2 FTL capable emergency beacons
3 Minnow class landing shuttles
2 EVA repair drones
169 m3 water
1 deployable field laboratory
5 m3 assorted officer grade MREs
10 m3 emergency field rations
56 crew: loading crew data… //DATA EXPUNGED//